# gokart-game
## GoKart Game implementing distributed programming

A client-server application utilising socket programming. 

  When it comes to the **client** side, it manages sending and receiving messages to and from the server. It also is responsible for displaying information to the user about the state of the connection. The messages are sent as a byte array combining position of the kart, index of the image so that the proper rotation can be displayed, and information whether the karts crashed or not. Each client upon connecting with the server generates its own id and sends it to the server so that it can be recognised if needed, mostly for debugging purposes. A client object is being created in the “APanel” and all the information about the connection and sending and receiving of messages is being called from there. There are two karts created – player and opponent kart. Upon repainting the GUI, the client sends information about its player kart and assigns the data received to the opponent. If the karts crash, the application stops repainting and displays a message in both clients, that allows the players to either restart the game or quit. It is not a perfect solution, because sometimes when one of the players chooses to restart the game, it is necessary to press the button twice for the message to actually disappear and reset the game. When debugging, the issue disappears, which most likely means that it is caused by a kind of a timing issue when threads send their messages over the network.
  
   To manage player connections, a **Server** application accepts two connections, because the game has a fixed number of players, assigns the kart colours based on the order that the players connect, first being white and the second being black kart. Each player is started as a separate thread and it receives and sends messages in a loop. Sometimes when testing the program one of the clients – the one that connected second to be specific – was not receiving its colour thus not being able to actually start further execution and display the GUI. Again, it is most likely a timing error when it comes to the threads.
